Part of planning a large project such as a rpg game is to breakdown the project into digestible
steps.  You want to start by breaking out a project first into large and vague steps, and
progressively break each of these steps into substeps until you end up with a project that
you can start working on, one small step at a time.

We want to create a combat system featuring two player controlled characters fighting up to four enemies in a turn based system where the player takes turns making moves with their non-KO'd characters, followed by the monsters taking their turns.
How can we break this up into individual steps?

What sort of data do we need to run the combat, and what sort of objects should they involve?

What variables do we need to keep track off to handle the flow of the combat between steps?

What display elements will we need to display to the player to make sense of the game?

Try to do this exercise on your own.  There can be many ways to get to an answer.






















In this project we will do the following steps:
0. (Switch off renpy visual novel elements)
1. Setup battlefield
   a. Setup monsters
   b. Setup players
   c. Clear player turns
2. Perform player actions
   a. Choose active player or end player turn
   b. Choose action (defend/attack/magic)
   c. Choose target
   d. Perform attack/defend
   e. Check for end of player turn or end of combat
3. Perform monster actions, for each monster
   a. Choose active player to attack
   b. Perform attack
   c. Check for end of combat
4. Show end screen

Data we will need:
Players
   Name, hp, mp, atk, defense, image, magic skill
Monsters
   Name, img, hp, atk, (animation)
Magic Skill
   Mp, description, aoe (boolean)

Tracking parameters

Monsters
Players
Message-- for message overlay
inCombat-- Boolean
Win-- Boolean
Player.turn-- Boolean
Player.defending -- Boolean
current_player -- Tracking who the player selected to act, or done
Skill -- Tracking which player option (attack/defend/magic) is chosen



