Here are steps for getting your flask project on a website hosted by Azure

These instructions were prepared using Microsoft's documentation at
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/quickstart-python

Step 1. Log in to GitHub and create a new project.  Copy your project over to it.  Make sure that
you have a requirements.txt file, and that you have a line such as the one below in it, to show that
flask is required to run the project.

flask~=3.1.1

Assuming that you have already installed flask (pip install flask), test your server locally.

Step 2. Go to https://azure.microsoft.com/ and create a new account.  You can create a free account
for one month that has $200 worth of credit.  There are many free services that, as long as your usage
is low enough, will not charge, and are often sufficient for hobbyist purposes.

Step 3. In the Azure portal, go to the Quickstart Center.  In the left menu, select Create->Popular services
and, in the main menu, click Start for the Create Web App (for now without Database).

Step 4. In the Project Details section in the Create Web App, click on the Create new button beneath
the Subscription/Resource Group form. You should see your subscription already filled out. You can put
any name for the resource group, such as webapp.

Step 5. In the Instance Details section, enter a name for the website (which will be separate from all
other Azure hosted website, choose Code for Publish, choose Python 3.13 for Runtime stack, and select Canada East
 for region.

Step 6. Under pricing plans, choose a pricing plan. There is a Free F1 plan, and a Basic B1 plan, which
will have better performance at the cost of about 13 dollars per month. After completing steps 3-6, click
Review + create, and then Create after navigating to the review screen. Note that the free plan gives
one hour of up time per day.

Step 7. Select Deployment -> Deployment Center and choose as your source GitHub. In the GitHub section,
sign in to your github account, select the repository that you saved your webapp to and Save.

Step 8 Navigate to your site.  The default domain will be in the domains section of the Overview.  You
may need to wait for a bit upon your initial navigation to the website.

For an example, see https://ew-sample-website-h8e7chdkgfa5hgaq.canadaeast-01.azurewebsites.net